WIP [deployer + documentation] Add deployer and docs support for faster intial hub setups (#3956)
2i2c-org/infrastructure: docs/hub-deployment-guide/runbooks/phase3/initial-hub-setup.md

(hub-deployment-guide:runbooks:phase3.1)=
# Phase 3.1: Initial setup

> This phase is about configuring an initial, basic hub for the community to try it on. This hub will have basic customizations, like appearance, daskhub/basehub, a simple authentication mechanism and a list of initial admin users able to access it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This phase is about configuring an initial, basic hub for the community to experiment with. This hub will have basic customizations, like appearance, daskhub/basehub, a simple authentication mechanism and a list of initial admin users able to access it.
```

Or "to try out"

## Definition of ready

The following lists the information that needs to be available to the engineer before this phase can start.

- Name of the hub

> - Dask gateway?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Will Dask gateway be required?
```

> - Splash image

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Landing page image
```

Author: These are coming from the new hub issue https://github.com/2i2c-org/infrastructure/issues/3906. I will keep them on par with what's in the issue template and update it or remove it completely once we standardize the new format in an issue template. Does this sound ok to you?

Reviewer 2: Absolutely!

- URL of the community's webpage
- Funded by information (name and URL)

> - Authentication Mechanism

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- JupyterHub authenticator class
```

> - Authentication Mechanism

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Authentication mechanism
```

for consistency

  ├── <new-hub-name>.values.yaml
  └── enc-<new-hub-name>.secret.values.yaml
```

And the following existing file should be updated to accommodate the new hub if the cluster was recently added:

```bash
～ .github/workflows
  └── deploy-hubs.yaml
```

```{tip}
When reviewing initial hub setup PRs, make sure the files above are all present.
```

## Initial setup runbook

All of the following steps must be followed in order to consider phase 3.1 complete. Steps might contain references to other smaller, topic-specifc runbooks that are gathered together and listed in the order they should be carried on by an engineer.

1. **Determine the hub helm chart that is needed**

   Use the info provided in the new hub GitHub issue for the `Dask gateway` section.
   If Dask gateway will be needed, then go for a `daskhub` helm chart, otherwise choose a `basehub`.

   Store the helm type under $HELM_CHART_TYPE env var:

   ```bash
   export HELM_CHART_TYPE=type
   ```

   ```{seealso}
   For more information about our hub helm charts and how to choose, see [](hub-helm-charts).

   See [](/topic/infrastructure/config.md) for general information about hub helm chart configuration.
   ```

> 2. **Determine the address of the storage server that a hub on this cluster should use to connect to it**

Reviewer: I would swap steps (2) and (3) around so that the next, immediate thing I do once I have the server IP in my clipboard, is paste it into the deployer command to generate the config. In the current order, I have to setup files in between pulling info and running the command that requires the info.

   - One file will hold the common hubs configuration and one will hold the specific hub configuration.

     ```bash
     export CLUSTER_NAME=cluster-name;
     export HUB_NAME=hub-name
     ```

   - Make sure you are in the root of the infrastructure repository and run:

     ```bash
     touch ./config/clusters/$CLUSTER_NAME/$HUB_NAME.values.yaml;
     touch ./config/clusters/$CLUSTER_NAME/common.values.yaml
     ```

4. **Run the deployer to generate a sample basic hub configuration**

   The easiest way to add new configuration is to use the deployer to generate an initial sample config.

   You will be asked to input all the information needed for the command to run successfully. Follow the instructions on the screen and using the information provided to you, fill in all the fields.

   - **Run the deployer command below to generate config for the specific hub configuration:**
     ```bash
     deployer generate hub-asset main-values-file
     ```

   - **Run the deployer commands below to generate config for the common hubs configuration:**
     ```bash
     deployer generate hub-asset common-values-file
     ```

   ```{tip}

>    Each `*.values.yaml` file is a Zero to JupyterHub configuration, and you can customize whatever you like.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   Each `*.values.yaml` file is a Helm chart configuration file (`basehub`, or `daskhub`), and you can within it also configure their chart dependencies (`jupyterhub`, `dask-gateway`, etc).
```

   ```

   ```{warning}
   Please pay attention to all the fields that have been auto-generated for you by this command and change every one that doesn't match the community's requirements or was not rendered correctly before copying-pasting it into the relevant files.
   ```

6. **Add the new cluster to CI/CD**

   ```{important}
   This step is only applicable if the hub is being deployed to a new cluster that has been recently created by following the previous runbooks.
   ```

   To ensure the new cluster and its hubs are appropriately handled by our CI/CD system, please add it as an entry in the following places:

      - The [`deploy-hubs.yaml`](https://github.com/2i2c-org/infrastructure/blob/008ae2c1deb3f5b97d0c334ed124fa090df1f0c6/.github/workflows/deploy-hubs.yaml#L121) GitHub workflow has a job named [`upgrade-support-and-staging`](https://github.com/2i2c-org/infrastructure/blob/18f5a4f8f39ed98c2f5c99091ae9f19a1075c988/.github/workflows/deploy-hubs.yaml#L128-L166) that needs to list of clusters being automatically deployed by our CI/CD system. Add an entry for the new cluster here.

> 6. **Create a Pull Request with the new hub entry**

Reviewer 2: Line numbers repeat `6`. I think if you repeat `1`, it will when rendered show up as 1,2,3,4,5 etc, so an option is also to just do `1.` over and over.

I appreciate the only-use-1-strategy as it makes it unreasonable to reference the specific numbers, which is something I find good to avoid as it creates fragile / hard-to-maintain docs. It also avoids having `10.` that gets indented further than `9.` etc.

   And get a team member to review it.

7. **Merge the PR once it's approved**
   Once you merge the pull request, the GitHub Action workflow will detect that a new entry has been added to the configuration file.

   It will then deploy a new JupyterHub with the configuration you've specified onto the corresponding cluster.

8. **Monitor the action to make sure that it completes**

   If something goes wrong and the workflow does not finish, try [deploying locally](hubs:manual-deploy) to access the logs to help understand what is going on.
   It may be necessary to make new changes to the hub's configuration via a Pull Request, or to *revert* the old Pull Request if you cannot determine how to resolve the problem.

   ```{attention}
   In order to protect sensitive tokens, our CI/CD pipeline will **not** print testing output to its logs.
   You will need to run the [health check locally](hubs:manual-deploy:health-check) to inspect these logs.
   ```

9. **Log in to the hub**

   And ensure that the hub works as expected from a user's perspective.

> 10. Send a link to the hub's Community Representative(s) so they can confirm that it works from their perspective as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
10. **Send a link to the hub's Community Representative(s) so they can confirm that it works from their perspective as well.**
```

All other steps were bolded
